agent-protocols/mcp/README.md, before:

## Gateways
- https://github.com/metatool-ai/metamcp
- https://github.com/docker/mcp-gateway
- https://github.com/AmoyLab/Unla
- https://github.com/supercorp-ai/supergateway
- https://github.com/Azure-Samples/AI-Gateway/tree/main/labs/model-context-protocol
- https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/introducing-amazon-bedrock-agentcore-gateway-transforming-enterprise-ai-agent-tool-development/
- https://github.com/lasso-security/mcp-gateway
- https://github.com/mcpjungle/MCPJungle
- https://github.com/hyprmcp/mcp-gateway
- https://github.com/IBM/mcp-context-forge
- https://github.com/agentic-community/mcp-gateway-registry
- https://mcpmanager.ai/
- https://stormmcp.ai/home
- https://mcp-boss.com/
- https://www.mintmcp.com/
- https://hyprmcp.com/
- https://github.com/microsoft/mcp-gateway (https://microsoft.github.io/mcp-gateway/)
- https://github.com/obot-platform/obot (https://obot.ai/obot-ai-secures-35m-seed-to-build-enterprise-mcp-gateway/)
- https://github.com/agentgateway/agentgateway
- https://github.com/TheLunarCompany/lunar/tree/main/mcpx (https://docs.lunar.dev/mcpx)
- https://github.com/hyprmcp/jetski
- https://selfhostedmcp.com/ (https://github.com/oidebrett/mcpauth)
- https://github.com/INQUIRELAB/mcp-bridge-api
- https://www.harmonic.security/harmonic-sneak-peek
- https://github.com/locomotive-agency/mcp-anywhere
- https://github.com/1mcp-app/agent
- https://traefik.io/solutions/mcp-gateway
- https://www.runlayer.com/ (https://youtu.be/guC1VeYZpQ4)

## Client Side Proxies
- https://github.com/trailofbits/mcp-context-protector
- https://github.com/pangeacyber/pangea-mcp-proxy

## IDE Plugins
- https://audit.agentity.com/ mcp use audit VSCode plugin
- https://github.com/Agentity-com/mcp-audit-extension

## Research
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.12538 Systematic Analysis of MCP Security
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.03095 A Survey of AI Agent Registry Solutions
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.24272 When MCP Servers Attack: Taxonomy, Feasibility, and Mitigation
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.13220 MCPSecBench: A Systematic Security Benchmark and Playground for Testing Model Context Protocols
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.06572 Mind Your Server: A Systematic Study of Parasitic Toolchain Attacks on the MCP Ecosystem
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.23634 MCP Safety Training: Learning to Refuse Falsely Benign MCP Exploits using Improved Preference Alignment
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02040 Beyond the Protocol: Unveiling Attack Vectors in the Model Context Protocol (MCP) Ecosystem
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13666 We Should Identify and Mitigate Third-Party Safety Risks in MCP-Powered Agent Systems
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23278 Model Context Protocol (MCP): Landscape, Security Threats, and Future Research Directions
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.23474v1 A Large-Scale Evolvable Dataset for Model Context Protocol Ecosystem and Security Analysis
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08623 Enterprise-Grade Security for the Model Context Protocol (MCP): Frameworks and Mitigation Strategies
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.11154 MPMA: Preference Manipulation Attack Against Model Context Protocol
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.21011 Automatic Red Teaming LLM-based Agents with Model Context Protocol Tools
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.19956 Securing Agentic AI: A Comprehensive Threat Model and Mitigation Framework for Generative AI Agents
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23278 Model Context Protocol (MCP): Landscape, Security Threats, and Future Research Directions

## Checklists
- https://github.com/slowmist/MCP-Security-Checklist

## Building / Development
- https://github.blog/ai-and-ml/generative-ai/how-to-build-secure-and-scalable-remote-mcp-servers/
- https://aaronparecki.com/2025/04/03/15/oauth-for-model-context-protocol
- https://www.okta.com/newsroom/press-releases/okta-introduces-cross-app-access-to-help-secure-ai-agents-in-the/
- https://www.okta.com/newsroom/articles/understanding-the-ai-agent-identity-challenge
- https://developer.okta.com/blog/2025/06/23/enterprise-ai
- https://github.com/oktadev/okta-cross-app-access-mcp - cross app access MCP example
- https://hi120ki.github.io/blog/posts/20250728/
- https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/646
- https://github.com/NineSunsInc/mighty-security
- https://github.com/MCP-Manager/MCP-Checklists
- https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-center/register-discover-mcp-server
- https://github.com/orgs/modelcontextprotocol/discussions/159
- https://hub.docker.com/u/mcp
- https://www.docker.com/blog/announcing-docker-mcp-catalog-and-toolkit-beta/
- https://invariantlabs.ai/blog/toxic-flow-analysis
- https://simonwillison.net/2025/Aug/9/bay-area-ai/
- https://julsimon.medium.com/why-mcps-disregard-for-40-years-of-rpc-best-practices-will-burn-enterprises-8ef85ce5bc9b
- https://www.cerbos.dev/blog/mcp-authorization
- https://github.com/jaw9c/awesome-remote-mcp-servers
- https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/blog/2025/08/20/securing-the-agentic-ai-control-plane-announcing-the-mcp-security-resource-center
- https://modelcontextprotocol.io/clients
- https://github.com/trailofbits/mcp-context-protector
- https://github.com/General-Analysis/mcp-guard
- https://invariantlabs.ai/blog/toxic-flow-analysis
- https://github.com/invariantlabs-ai/mcp-scan
- https://semgrep.dev/blog/2025/a-security-engineers-guide-to-mcp/
- https://hyprmcp.com/blog/mcp-server-prompt-analytics/
- https://github.com/evalstate/fast-agent
- https://embracethered.com/blog/posts/2025/model-context-protocol-security-risks-and-exploits/
- https://www.cyberark.com/resources/threat-research-blog/poison-everywhere-no-output-from-your-mcp-server-is-safe
- https://github.com/stacklok/toolhive
- https://github.com/microsandbox/microsandbox
- https://github.com/tuananh/hyper-mcp
- https://hack.mcpwned.com/dashboard/scanner
- https://modelcontextprotocol-security.io
- https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/blog/2025/08/20/securing-the-agentic-ai-control-plane-announcing-the-mcp-security-resource-center
- https://blog.cloudflare.com/zero-trust-mcp-server-portals/

## Scanners
- https://github.com/fr0gger/proximity
- https://github.com/riseandignite/mcp-shield
- https://github.com/AIS2Lab/MCPSecBench
- https://github.com/ModelContextProtocol-Security/mcpserver-audit

## MCP PAM
- https://www.querypie.com/ 

## Ownage
- https://www.koi.security/blog/postmark-mcp-npm-malicious-backdoor-email-theft
- https://www.koi.security/blog/mcp-malware-wave-continues-a-remote-shell-in-backdoor
- https://invariantlabs.ai/blog/mcp-github-vulnerability
- https://x.com/UjlakiMarci/status/1927825607137640950

## Risk Databases
- https://www.wiz.io/blog/mcp-security-research-briefing
- https://github.com/SAFE-MCP/safe-mcp
- https://vulnerablemcp.info/
- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QEmodtLLMyE9xg77aTi_QJn5ulV53mez6eOw_pqGiwA/edit
- https://modelcontextprotocol-security.io/

Commit message:

Add new references to MCP security research

agent-protocols/mcp/README.md, after:

## Gateways
- https://github.com/metatool-ai/metamcp
- https://github.com/docker/mcp-gateway
- https://github.com/AmoyLab/Unla
- https://github.com/supercorp-ai/supergateway
- https://github.com/Azure-Samples/AI-Gateway/tree/main/labs/model-context-protocol
- https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/introducing-amazon-bedrock-agentcore-gateway-transforming-enterprise-ai-agent-tool-development/
- https://github.com/lasso-security/mcp-gateway
- https://github.com/mcpjungle/MCPJungle
- https://github.com/hyprmcp/mcp-gateway
- https://github.com/IBM/mcp-context-forge
- https://github.com/agentic-community/mcp-gateway-registry
- https://mcpmanager.ai/
- https://stormmcp.ai/home
- https://mcp-boss.com/
- https://www.mintmcp.com/
- https://hyprmcp.com/
- https://github.com/microsoft/mcp-gateway (https://microsoft.github.io/mcp-gateway/)
- https://github.com/obot-platform/obot (https://obot.ai/obot-ai-secures-35m-seed-to-build-enterprise-mcp-gateway/)
- https://github.com/agentgateway/agentgateway
- https://github.com/TheLunarCompany/lunar/tree/main/mcpx (https://docs.lunar.dev/mcpx)
- https://github.com/hyprmcp/jetski
- https://selfhostedmcp.com/ (https://github.com/oidebrett/mcpauth)
- https://github.com/INQUIRELAB/mcp-bridge-api
- https://www.harmonic.security/harmonic-sneak-peek
- https://github.com/locomotive-agency/mcp-anywhere
- https://github.com/1mcp-app/agent
- https://traefik.io/solutions/mcp-gateway
- https://www.runlayer.com/ (https://youtu.be/guC1VeYZpQ4)

## Client Side Proxies
- https://github.com/trailofbits/mcp-context-protector
- https://github.com/pangeacyber/pangea-mcp-proxy

## IDE Plugins
- https://audit.agentity.com/ mcp use audit VSCode plugin
- https://github.com/Agentity-com/mcp-audit-extension

## Research
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.12538 Systematic Analysis of MCP Security
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.03095 A Survey of AI Agent Registry Solutions
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.24272 When MCP Servers Attack: Taxonomy, Feasibility, and Mitigation
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.13220 MCPSecBench: A Systematic Security Benchmark and Playground for Testing Model Context Protocols
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.06572 Mind Your Server: A Systematic Study of Parasitic Toolchain Attacks on the MCP Ecosystem
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.23634 MCP Safety Training: Learning to Refuse Falsely Benign MCP Exploits using Improved Preference Alignment
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02040 Beyond the Protocol: Unveiling Attack Vectors in the Model Context Protocol (MCP) Ecosystem
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13666 We Should Identify and Mitigate Third-Party Safety Risks in MCP-Powered Agent Systems
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23278 Model Context Protocol (MCP): Landscape, Security Threats, and Future Research Directions
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.23474v1 A Large-Scale Evolvable Dataset for Model Context Protocol Ecosystem and Security Analysis
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08623 Enterprise-Grade Security for the Model Context Protocol (MCP): Frameworks and Mitigation Strategies
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.11154 MPMA: Preference Manipulation Attack Against Model Context Protocol
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.21011 Automatic Red Teaming LLM-based Agents with Model Context Protocol Tools
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.19956 Securing Agentic AI: A Comprehensive Threat Model and Mitigation Framework for Generative AI Agents
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23278 Model Context Protocol (MCP): Landscape, Security Threats, and Future Research Directions
- https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.16558 Toward Understanding Security Issues in the Model Context Protocol Ecosystem
- https://www.arxiv.org/abs/2510.15994 MCP Security Bench (MSB): Benchmarking Attacks Against Model Context Protocol in LLM Agents

## Checklists
- https://github.com/slowmist/MCP-Security-Checklist

## Building / Development
- https://github.blog/ai-and-ml/generative-ai/how-to-build-secure-and-scalable-remote-mcp-servers/
- https://aaronparecki.com/2025/04/03/15/oauth-for-model-context-protocol
- https://www.okta.com/newsroom/press-releases/okta-introduces-cross-app-access-to-help-secure-ai-agents-in-the/
- https://www.okta.com/newsroom/articles/understanding-the-ai-agent-identity-challenge
- https://developer.okta.com/blog/2025/06/23/enterprise-ai
- https://github.com/oktadev/okta-cross-app-access-mcp - cross app access MCP example
- https://hi120ki.github.io/blog/posts/20250728/
- https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/646
- https://github.com/NineSunsInc/mighty-security
- https://github.com/MCP-Manager/MCP-Checklists
- https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-center/register-discover-mcp-server
- https://github.com/orgs/modelcontextprotocol/discussions/159
- https://hub.docker.com/u/mcp
- https://www.docker.com/blog/announcing-docker-mcp-catalog-and-toolkit-beta/
- https://invariantlabs.ai/blog/toxic-flow-analysis
- https://simonwillison.net/2025/Aug/9/bay-area-ai/
- https://julsimon.medium.com/why-mcps-disregard-for-40-years-of-rpc-best-practices-will-burn-enterprises-8ef85ce5bc9b
- https://www.cerbos.dev/blog/mcp-authorization
- https://github.com/jaw9c/awesome-remote-mcp-servers
- https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/blog/2025/08/20/securing-the-agentic-ai-control-plane-announcing-the-mcp-security-resource-center
- https://modelcontextprotocol.io/clients
- https://github.com/trailofbits/mcp-context-protector
- https://github.com/General-Analysis/mcp-guard
- https://invariantlabs.ai/blog/toxic-flow-analysis
- https://github.com/invariantlabs-ai/mcp-scan
- https://semgrep.dev/blog/2025/a-security-engineers-guide-to-mcp/
- https://hyprmcp.com/blog/mcp-server-prompt-analytics/
- https://github.com/evalstate/fast-agent
- https://embracethered.com/blog/posts/2025/model-context-protocol-security-risks-and-exploits/
- https://www.cyberark.com/resources/threat-research-blog/poison-everywhere-no-output-from-your-mcp-server-is-safe
- https://github.com/stacklok/toolhive
- https://github.com/microsandbox/microsandbox
- https://github.com/tuananh/hyper-mcp
- https://hack.mcpwned.com/dashboard/scanner
- https://modelcontextprotocol-security.io
- https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/blog/2025/08/20/securing-the-agentic-ai-control-plane-announcing-the-mcp-security-resource-center
- https://blog.cloudflare.com/zero-trust-mcp-server-portals/

## Scanners
- https://github.com/fr0gger/proximity
- https://github.com/riseandignite/mcp-shield
- https://github.com/AIS2Lab/MCPSecBench
- https://github.com/ModelContextProtocol-Security/mcpserver-audit

## MCP PAM
- https://www.querypie.com/ 

## Ownage
- https://www.koi.security/blog/postmark-mcp-npm-malicious-backdoor-email-theft
- https://www.koi.security/blog/mcp-malware-wave-continues-a-remote-shell-in-backdoor
- https://invariantlabs.ai/blog/mcp-github-vulnerability
- https://x.com/UjlakiMarci/status/1927825607137640950

## Risk Databases
- https://www.wiz.io/blog/mcp-security-research-briefing
- https://github.com/SAFE-MCP/safe-mcp
- https://vulnerablemcp.info/
- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QEmodtLLMyE9xg77aTi_QJn5ulV53mez6eOw_pqGiwA/edit
- https://modelcontextprotocol-security.io/
